# **Software Release Submittal** Key|Value---- | ----**Product:**| PI Adapter for EventHubs               **Version:** | 1.0.1.239**Program:** | El Dorado                **Program Manager:** | Frank Gasparro**Strategic PM:** | Chris Felts           **Technical PM:**| William Murdock**Team Lead / Developer:** | EM: Jeremy Henderson; Staff: Vinay Doke / Team Gambit**Part Number: (if applicable)** | ADP-AZURE-EH**Submittal Date:**| 10/05/2021      **Review Date:**| **QA Reviewer:**| **Release Specialist:**| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 1 OverviewThis is the first generally available release version of 1.0.1 for the PI Adapter for Azure Event Hub. This product collects time series data and relevant metadata from an Azure Event Hub and sends it to configured OMF endpoints such as PI Web API and OSIsoft Cloud Services. PI Adapter for Azure Event Hub can also collect health and diagnostics information. It supports buffering, unsolicited data collection, automatic discovery of available data items on a data source, on-demand/automatic history recovery of data items supporting HistoryReady user access level, and various Windows and Linux-based operating systems as well as containerization.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 2 Summary of Submitted Internal Facing DeliverablesKey|Value---- | ----**Azure DevOps Project:** | https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/   **(DCA: This is a geneneric link.  What is the link to your specific project.)** **Program Brief:** | https://osisoft1980.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/sites/OSIsoftEngineering/_layouts/15/doc2.aspx?action=edit&sourcedoc=%7B2E336CE2-36F3-462C-9CF9-382710AD4887%7D**Design Documents:** | https://osisoft1980.sharepoint.com/:w:/t/Engineering/architecture/EbvveTHKhEhLq0EkHGQOaoYBXLGOPCM4CYM-W8beBDrVmw?e=dv6V0a**License.txt File:**| https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_git/adapter-eventhubs?path=%2FSource%2Flicense.txt&version=GBmain&_a=contents**Code Review documentation/query:**| https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_git/adapter-eventhubs/pullrequests?_a=completed**Test Plan:**| https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_git/adapter-release-docs?path=%2Fevent-hubs%2Fv1.0.1%2Fadapter-eventhubs-1.0.1-test-plan.docx&version=GBmain&_a=contents                               **(DCA - Bug 257197 is in the status of New.  PBI 198446, which is the Release Submittal is in the status of Committed.  All work items are supposed to be in the status of Done or Removed.)**                                                                                                                                                        **(DCA - Please accept the changes in the MS Word document.)**                                                                **(DCA - The test plan states that there is no Repair testing executed.  Shouldn't each product be tested for Repair even if it is not an upgrade?  Meaning right clicking the product in Programs and Features and executing a Repair?)** **Test Results (Include all results):**|  unit tests results: https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/results?buildId=387109&view=ms.vss-test-web.build-test-results-tab; functional test results: https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/results?buildId=387109&view=ms.vss-test-web.build-test-results-tab**Test Result Summary:**| All unit tests, functional tests, and deployment tests are automated and passing. Performance tests meet the program requirements. More details about the test requirements and testing strategy can be found in the Test Plan.**Black Duck Project Name and Version:**| OSIsoft Adapter for Azure Event Hubs 1.0.1**Black Duck Notices Report:**| https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_git/adapter-release-docs?path=/event-hubs/v1.0.1/version-license_2021-10-12_151825.txt&version=GBmain&_a=contents**Black Duck Components Report:**| https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_git/adapter-release-docs?path=%2Fevent-hubs%2Fv1.0.1%2FOSIsoft%2BAdapter%2Bfor%2BAzure%2BEvent%2BHubs-1.0.1_Notices_2021-10-11_203541.zip&version=GBmain&_a=contents                                                                                                          **(DCA - This is not the components report.  This is generted in Black Duck - Please use "Create Version Detail Report".)** **Required SDL Scorecard Assessment:**| All values passing with scores >= 2.0. https://apps.powerapps.com/play/186e04d9-ce42-4174-a11d-40f3b86943b1  ; Team: Gambit - PI Adapter for Azure Event Hubs                                                **(DCA -                                                                                                                                                               /sdl compiler flags = 10.00                                                                                                                                       3rd Party Components Signed = 7.00                                                                                                                      Anti-CSRF = 8.00                                                                                                                                                   BinSkim = 10.00                                                                                                                                                    Content Security Policy = 7.00                                                                                                                              Credential management = 10.00                                                                                                                       Executables signed = 10.00                                                                                                                                Polaris SAST Security issues = 10.00                                                                                                                   Rapid7 InsightAppSec Adoption = 2.00                                                                                                            remove banned functions = 10.00                                                                                                                     SCA (Black Duck) sprint adoption = 5.00                                                                                                          Service hardening -run-as = 8.00                                                                                                                           Threat Model Tool (or equiv) = 10.00                                                                                                                   Track and review code changes = 10.00                                                                                                          Transport security supported = 2.00                                                                                                                      YAML Pipeline = 10.00)** **Tests to be included in the PI System Deployment Test GitHub offering:** |N/A**GitHub Code Samples:** |N/A**Other- Internal Facing Document:** |N/A**Shared Team query for all work items in this release:**| https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_queries/query/894a4297-f631-4c21-8eea-3b8ed41a76f1/                                                                                                                                                                       **(DCA - Bug 257197 is in the status of New.  PBI 198446, which is the Release Submittal is in the status of Committed.  All work items are supposed to be in the status of Done or Removed.)** **List of other OSIsoft products upon which this product is dependent that are not yet released:**| N/A> •	External facing deliverables (i.e. setup kit, release notes, user guide), are included in the Submitted Table of External Facing Deliverables, in section 11 below.  > •	Black Duck Notices and Components reports should be archived with your product release artifacts.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------### 2.1 Framework (interfaces, adapters and connectors only)- [ ] AMI- [ ] Batch- [ ] UniInt- [ ] Connector Frameowrk 1.x- [ ] Connector Framework 2.x (requires DCM and Connector Relay to be installed separately)- [x] Adapter Framework**If framework is used, list version:** PI Adapter Framework 1.4.0.134 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 3 Source Code**Path to source code:** https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_git/adapter-eventhubs?path=%2F&version=GBmain&_a=contents**(DCA - If rebuilding please update Copyright to 2021 in the appropriate copyright...txt file(s).)****Source Code Label:**  1.0.1.234Have the copyright dates in the assembly info files been updated if significant changes have occurred?- [x] Yes- [ ] No-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------### 3.1 Product Copyright Registration (To be filled out by Product Manager)- [x] Yes- [ ] No This release requires an updated Copyright.> A new copyright registration may be required if there are significant changes in this release.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------### 3.2 Debug Symbols- Debug Symbols are **not** included in the setup kit.    - [x] Yes   - [ ] No- Debug Symbols have been published to Azure Dev Ops Artifacts using the build task Index Sources & Publish Symbols.    **Link to Build Artifact containing archived symbols:** https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/results?buildId=387072&view=artifacts&pathAsName=false&type=publishedArtifacts- For legacy applications, the symbols and been published to thecorporate file-based symbol server at \\rambutan\sym.  **Name and Timestamp of PDB File:** N/A-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------### 3.3 Catalog Files specific to the product being developed. (Refer to the [SecurityWiki](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_wiki/wikis/Architecture.wiki/1278/Generating-and-testing-catalog-by-script)for more information)Does this release distribute:unsigned or improperly signed Open Source or Third Party files?- [ ] Yes- [x] No Any unsigned or improperly signed OSIsoft files?- [ ] Yes- [x] No> If either of the above questions is answered yes, please list the Catalog file(s) generated for this product below. Please remember to provide a separate catalog file for the OSIsoft files from Open Source or Third-Party files.> **Please ensure that all catalog files are signed digitally.**Catalog files are stored at: \\raid5users\pimaint\project folder\folder\Digitally signed Catalog File Name | Catalog File Location | Provide a CDF file or equivalent if we are not able to view Cat file contents---|---|---OSIsoft-PI Adapter for EventHubs-1.0.1.234.cat |File Location: https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/results?buildId=387109&view=artifacts&pathAsName=false&type=publishedArtifacts ; File Folder: adapter-setup-kits ;| N/AOSIsoft-productname-productversion-Native.cat | N/A | N/A> In rare cases where there are both unsigned 3rd party DLLs and also unsigned OSIsoft DLLs (typically in on older legacy setup kit), two separate catalog files will be generated and signed individually. These two files will be named per the special patching catalog instructions here. In such a situation, it is necessary to get approval from the security team before proceeding. > After receiving approval from the security team, the catalog file for the unsigned 3rd party DLLs would be generated and named using the format shown in the row above.> By contrast, the catalog file for the unsigned OSIsoft DLLs would include the word “native”, as shown in the example included in this row to the left.> Both signed catalog files, along with any additional component catalog files, would be zipped into a single file and named with a .zip file extension. For example, for PI SDK, the catalog files would be named:> - Unsigned 3rd party DLLs: OSIsoft-PISDK-2018.cat> - Unsigned OSIsoft DLLs: OSIsoft-PISDK-2018-Native.cat.> - Zipped file containing both catalog files: OSIsoft-PISDK-2018-Catalog Files.zip-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------### 3.4	Installation Kit Component Catalog Files> (This section is to be filled out by the Product Manager, whose responsibility it is to ensure that needed catalog files are in place with the other product release artifacts on PIMaint. The developer and/or staff developer is responsible for determining which, if any, catalog files are needed.)Catalog files for additional OSIsoft components included in the self-extracting setup kit for this product: (Please note that the catalog file is not included in the self-extracting setup kit.)**Please ensure that all catalog files are signed digitally.**Digitally Signed Catalog File Name | Provide a CDF file or equivalent | Catalog File Location---|---|------|---|------|---|---Compressed ZIP file containing catalog file specific to the product being developed as well as the catalog files for additional OSIsoft components included in the self-extracting setup kit for this product:(*Please note that the catalog file specific to the product being developed may be either a singular catalog file or a compressed ZIP catalog file if the product being developed has both a non-native and native catalog file.) Deployed ZIP Catalog file for posting to Salesforce | Catalog File Location---|---OSIsoft <Product Name> <Product Version> Catalog Files.zip | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------### 3.5 Source Code EscrowKey|Value---|---**Escrow source code zip file location**| File Location: https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/results?buildId=387109&view=artifacts&pathAsName=false&type=publishedArtifacts ; File Folder: adapter-escrow ; File Name: PI Adapter for EventHubs.1.0.1.234.zip**Name of the Manufacturing Document**| ManufacturingDocument.txt-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------### 3.6 Open Source and Third-Party Licensing- [X] All Open Source or 3rd party tools have been pre-approved for use by OSIsoft's Architect team.- [X] All Open Source or 3rd party tools licensing requirements have been pre-approved by OSIsoft Legal.- [X] Confirm that tools with AGPL licensing were **not** used during development or installation of this product.- [X] Confirm that tools with GPL licensing are **not** distributed with this product.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 4 Build EnvironmentProvide a link to a description of the build environment: https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/results?buildId=387109&view=resultsADPTRTSTWIN01 Windows_NT**(DCA - I am not sure how to find the build environement on this link.)**-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 5 Release Notes- [X] Release Notes have been reviewedA. Name of the Developer, Technical Writer, Product Manager, etc. who has reviewed the Release Notes for clarity, readability, spelling and grammar: __Technical Writer: Mark Bishop, EM: Jeremy Henderson, Staff: Dmitry RubinsteinB.  - [X] Security Advisor/Staff Developer approved the Release Notes for security concerns.C.  - [X] **External Work items** have been revised for end user consumption paying attention so that sensitive/security related information is migrated to internal notes.- [X] The **Information and Security Guidance** section of the Release Notes has been updated, if security changes were identified during the security review.D.  Is there a separate **Security Bulletin** associated with this release? - [ ] Yes. If yes, list the security bulletin number here: __- [X] No.  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 6 Known Problems N/A -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 7 Testing and Test Results> Refer to the Release Submittal procedure:  QM25 Software Release Submittal.docx, Section 7, Testing and Test Results (currently in edit) which is located in VSO  -$/Corporate Policies and Procedures/Quality Systems/ProceduresIf the testing involves PI Server, testing was successfully performed using a PI Server with a restricted license file. **Please note, the PI Server should disallow anonymous connections.** - [ ] Yes - [ ] No - [x] N/A-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 8 Design Document or Product Overview DocumentProvide a link to the Design or Product Overview document:https://osisoft1980.sharepoint.com/:w:/t/Engineering/architecture/EbvveTHKhEhLq0EkHGQOaoYBXLGOPCM4CYM-W8beBDrVmw?e=dv6V0aor:- [ ] The Team query in the Summary of Submitted Internal Facing Deliverablesfunctions as the Design Document-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 9 Release CaveatsN/A-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 10 Communication Internal to OSIsoft, LLC.What actions have been taken to inform Tech Support, Field Service, Training, Sales & Marketing, and/or Manufacturing of the scope and timing of this revision?Key|Value---|---Harry Paul| October 11, 2021| TBD| [ ] Other (if training not required, explain why)Target training completion dates:- Major server/client releases:	at least 1 month prior to release- Major connector/ integrator release: at least 2 weeks prior to release- Minor connector/ integrator release: at least 1 week prior to release-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------## 11 Production Checklist**A. Distribution scope** (choose all that apply)** **Posting**- [x] Salesforce- [ ] Product distributed by third parties (i.e. Rockwell FactoryTalk PItoPI Interface)- [ ] Other **Non-standard Entitlement**- [ ] Product supported but not released to new customers (Maintenance)- [ ] Highly sensitive availability (i.e. NRC Interfaces) Customer name(s): **CD**- [ ] New CD’s need to be manufactured. Please identify Bundles. **Deactivation of old versions**- [ ] Deactivate old versions of the application.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------**B. Setup Kit and File Discriptions**> Place all files that will be made externally available in the appropriate folder on \\raid5users\pimaint\ and provide file names and description(s) of the setup kit and other files (base the File Description on the current description on the Details tab of the Product Install Kit Download window in Salesforce, and modify as needed):**Please provide information below for each file that gets downloaded**Item|Friendly File Name (provide if unusual)|Actual File name | File Description (for salesforce)---|---|---|---Install Kit |N/A|File Location: https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/results?buildId=387109&view=artifacts&pathAsName=false&type=publishedArtifacts ; File Folder: adapter-setup-kits  **                                                                       **(DCA - What are the names of the installation kits?  We have asked each adapter team to specifically call these out.                                                           PI Adapter for EventHubs_1.0.1.234-x64.msi                                                            PI Adapter for EventHubs_1.0.1.234-arm.deb                                                        PI Adapter for EventHubs_1.0.1.234-arm64.deb                                                        PI Adapter for EventHubs_1.0.1.234-x64_.deb )****|N/ARelease Notes |N/A|N/A  **(DCA - Where are the Relase Notes?)**|N/AInstallation Contents File||File Location: https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/results?buildId=387109&view=artifacts&pathAsName=false&type=publishedArtifacts ; File Folder: adapter-setup-kits\installation-contents                                             **(DCA - Again, please call out the file names:                                                            Installation Contentents - EventHubs_1.0.1.234_linux-arm.md                           Installation Contentents - EventHubs_1.0.1.234_linux-arm64.md                                    Installation Contentents - EventHubs_1.0.1.234_linux-x64.md                                  Installation Contentents - EventHubs_1.0.1.234_win10-x64.md)**|User Manual|N/A|https://docs.osisoft.com/bundle/pi-adapter-azure-event-hubs/page/index.html|N/AHelp File|N/A|N/A|N/ADemo or Timeout Install Kit(s)|N/A|N/A|N/ACatalog Files (summarization of 3.3 or 3.4)|N/A|File Location: https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/results?buildId=387109&view=artifacts&pathAsName=false&type=publishedArtifacts ; File Folder: adapter-setup-kits ; File Name: OSIsoft-PI Adapter for EventHubs-1.0.1.234.cat |N/ATests to be included in the PI System Deployment Test GitHub offering|N/A|N/A|N/AGitHub Code Samples |N/A|N/A|N/AOther (utilities, Simulator Files etc.)|N/A|N/A|N/AOther|N/A|N/A|N/A> Special Instructions:  Provide specific guidance as needed- Example: please link PI SQL DAS to PI ODBC 2015 **C. Release Bulletin Text**- [ ] Release Bulletin Text: - [ ] Special internal-only communication to CSS, if applicable:- [ ] Defer the internal communications about the release to the PMSalesforce Product Description Information Refresh the following content as needed for this release.  If updates are required, provide appropriate verbiage.System Requirements- Operating System Requirements:- PI System Requirements:Operating System|Platform|Installation Kit|Processor(s)---|---|---|---Windows 10 Enterprise;  Windows 10 IoT Enterprise|	x64| PI Adapter for EventHubs_1.0.1.234-x64_.msi|	Intel/AMD 64-bit processorsDebian 9, 10, Ubuntu 18.04, 20.04|	x64|	PI Adapter for EventHubs_1.0.1.234-x64_.deb|	Intel/AMD 64-bit processorsDebian 9,10, Ubuntu 20.04	|ARM32|	PI Adapter for EventHubs_1.0.1.234-arm_.deb|	ARM 32-bit processorsDebian 10, Ubuntu 18.04, 20.04	|ARM64	|PI Adapter for EventHubs_1.0.1.234-arm64_.deb|	ARM 64-bit processors